VIOLA

VIOLA is a Z-Machine Interpreter. That is, it interprets programs written for the virtual machine 
known as the Z-Machine. There's a brief history of the Z-Machine at the bottom of this file, for
some reason.

Viola conforms to the Z-Machine Standards Document version 1.1 for Z-Machine versions 1-8, 
barring bugs.



INSTALLATION

A few random notes on getting the program up and running.

You will need Python (version 3.3.5), which you can get at http://www.python.org, and pygame, which you
can get at http://www.pygame.org/.

NOTES

Viola more or less complies with the Z-Machine Standards Document 1.1, barring a few bugs. Quite a few
bugs, actually. It also does not handle unexpected behaviour from z-code files terribly well. 

Viola also implements several features from the proposal for a Z-Machine 1.2 Standard. The 1.2 standard
has not been finalised, so these features should be used with caution. They are only implemented to test
the viability of the standard.

Also, Viola supports Blorb 2.0 for pictures and sound, and Quetzal 1.4 saved games.


BUGS

Timed input stops the interpreter from closing. No, I don't have a clue what's going on there.

The coordinates are slightly messed up, as Viola is under the mistaken impression that the top left of
the screen is at 0,0, rather than 1,1. 

Text decoding probably doesn't work properly for z1 and z2.

External file handling doesn't prompt for a filename when it should.

Any comments, new bugs, etc. should be sent to marvin@frobnitz.co.uk

BRIEF HISTORY OF THE Z-MACHINE FOR SOME REASON

The Z-Machine was created in the early Eighties by Infocom in order to run 
text adventures.

Infocom evolved the design of the Z-Machine gradually, and created six distinct versions, each with 
more capabilites than the previous. Versions 1, 2 and 3 are almost identical, with slight changes to 
certain parts of the design that make them incompatible. Most of Infocom's games were released for 
version 3. Version 3 was a fairly simple design, but a seperate upper window was introduced for one 
game, and support for sound effects (which was really part of the Version 5 design, but a scaled down 
version was stuck into Version 3).
Version 4 introduced text styles, better upper window support and a few other features, as well as 
allowing games to be larger. Version 5 allowed even larger games, with several new features including 
better sound support. Version 6 allowed for graphics,  up to eight windows which could be moved and 
resized, bigger games, and other less obvious features. 

Then Infocom went out of business, more or less.

Several years later, Graham Nelson created Inform, which allowed anyone to create Z-Machine games. 
Two new Versions were created, numbered 7 and 8. These have none of the features of z6, but instead 
are identical to the z5 model, except that they both allow larger games.

Most games created for the Z-Machine since Infocom stopped business are z5 games.
